# Crosspoint Cover Generator

Simple python script for making cover images for Crosspoint firmware e-readers. Basically converts any image to 1-bit BMP with Floyd-Steinberg dithering.

## Why I made this

Sometimes Crosspoint fails to generate the cover to show on the recent pages and it just makes me feel off when a book has cover and the other doesn't. So I threw this together to manually make covers that works with Crosspoint.

## What it does

Takes whatever image you give it and makes it 148x226 pixels (changable in script), 1-bit BMP. Uses Floyd-Steinberg dithering so it fits and looks similar to other covers generated by Crosspoint.

Output specs are pretty specific for Crosspoint - BMP, 1-bit depth and usually around 4.47KB in size.

## Requirements

```bash
pip install pillow numpy
```

## How to use

```bash
python ereader_dither.py your_image.jpg
```

It'll make `your_image_dithered.bmp` in the same folder.

## Actually putting the cover on your device

Once you generate it, you can replace or put the cover file in your SD card at 
```
.crosspoint/epub_randomnumbers/cover_xxx.bmp
```

If you cannot find the blank or corrupted cover bmp there, delete that folder and reopen the book in crosspoint and quit the book, wait a while for it to generate a working cover or the broken one for you to replace manually.

## For other devices

If you're not using Xteink-X4, just change these lines in the code:

```python
target_width = 148
target_height = 226
```

Change them to whatever dimensions your device needs. 

## Technical stuff

- Floyd-Steinberg dithering for converting grayscale properly (fits the other covers generated by Crosspoint)
- makes 1-bit BMP (just black and white, 2 colors)
- default is 148x226 for Xteink-X4
- Windows V3 BMP format, no compression

## License

Honestly do whatever with it
